In the last exercise we saw how to use a
list to store multipart data.
In this exercise we're going to look at
that grade data
again and this time use a dictionary to
store the data.
Using a dictionary is a much more natural
way of scoring this particular type
of data, because a name and a grade are
related as a key value pair.
So in other words if I want to retrieve a
grade, I
will ask for the student's name, and that
will give me the grade.
So, using the dictionary is a more
efficient and more natural way
to work with this data, so let's see how
to do that.
So the first thing we're gonna do is open
up the interactive shell.
And this time we're going to use a
dictionary so we'll start off with an open
curly brace and we have a name as a string
followed by a colon
and then a grade followed by another name,
a colon and a grade.
And so on until we get through all the
names so I'll just go ahead and type those
in.
I'm putting my space after the grade but
spacing doesn't really matter there.
The most important thing is to have the
colon to separate the key
from the value and to have a comma between
each key value pair.
This'll be our last grade.
So we close with a closing curly brace.
So now if I just type the dictionary name,
that will return the data.
And notice that the data returned is not
in the same order as the data entered.
That's an important aspect of
dictionaries.
We don't store data in dictionary's
because we're interested
in the order that the data is being stored
unlike say if we were trying to store an
alphabetic list then we would be
interested in the order.
But here we're only interested in a list
of keys and a list of values.
So the fact that Clayton appears first in
the list when we retrieve it
even though it was entered 5th in the list
really doesn't make any difference.
Cuz all we're interested in doing is being
able to enter Clayton's name and retrieve
his grade.
So we can do that for a couple of more
names
just to verify that our system works, and
there it is.
Also remember that if we're interested in
what the
keys are we can use the keys function to
return a list of keys and likewise we can
use the values function to return a list
of values.
Having a function that returns the values
as a list
would be useful if we were trying to
compute the average
because it would be really easy to compute
the average from
this list of values because we could
simply sum the list.
And then divide by the number of grades to
get the average,
and that would be a lot easier than
working through the dictionary itself.
So that concludes this exercise and what I
wanted to demonstrate
was first of all, another example of how
to use the dictionary.
But also to point out that, a lot of times
the data
will suggest to you the type of data
structure that you should use.
And this type of data is certainly
more structured towards a dictionary than
a list.
We had to go through a few contortions to
get
the data out easily in a list, but with
the dictionary
it's just a matter of typing in a key as
an index to retrieve a grade, and that was
very simple.
So, with that, we're finished with this
chapter on data types and data structures.
And we're ready to move to the next
chapter where
we're going to talk about input and output
in Python.